# Related work

As ###. This work wasn't totally made in one day, also wasn't made from the beginning to the end without the help of online sources. Some of them are in shape of videos and others are in papers. Most of the sources that will be found here are more related the game field to make the graphics of the game and the logic for the player. while the papers one have taken the shape of an implemented (python) library to be used.

While on the other hand, the related sources to the field of AI, have taken the shape of an implemented (python) library to be used. It can be found in papers that require more than average knowledge about basic concepts in this field. I tried to clear most of them in the #### 101 AI part.

The Algorithm itself have been used in other low-budget games with the same purpose of making the environment more interactive, like:

- Galactic Arms Race (GAR): The game is about a galactic war and there are weapons included as part of the game. "In GAR, all player weapons are generated by the (content-generating NEAT) cgNEAT algorithm based on weapon usage statistics. However, cgNEAT does not simply respawn weapons that people like. Rather, it creates new weapons that elaborate on the ones that have been popular in the past" [Galactic Arms Race: Research](http://galacticarmsrace.blogspot.com/p/research.html).
- Dance Evolution: is interactive application made by the researcher behind the N.E.A.T algorithm "Kenneth O. Stanley". The game allows you to choose a song, and then a set of dancers will dance on it. When you choose a dancer, it will be the base for others to follow.

So as an implementation in the field of games by the creator, there haven''t been a single one that is made recently (in the last 10 years). While there have been little implementation to the idea of having N.E.A.T algorithm to play a game. One is either developed from ground to up like this tutorial https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2f6TmKm7yx0&t by Tim Ruscica. Others have made it on an open source game from another library and add their own tweaks to the library to fit the game, like https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RR1T_-zVws&t by Forrest Knight where he takes Sonic the Hedgehog module from Gymnasium (formally known as GymAI by openAI) and implement N.E.A.T algorithm on it.
